# 🛡️ ShadowGuard: AI-Driven Honeypot System
ShadowGuard is a honeypot system developed to trap cyber attackers, analyze their behavior, and gather threat intelligence. Unlike the static structure of traditional honeypots, it integrates with Large Language Models to build a unique, dynamic, and convincing Virtual File System  for each attacker.

✨ Key Features
🧠 Dynamic AI Reactions: Realistic content is generated by the LLM in seconds based on the attacker's commands and the files they want to read.

📂 Personalized Virtual System : A constant identity seed is created for each IP address, presenting a fake corporate profile and file hierarchy specific to the attacker.

📊 Real-Time Risk Scoring: The commands entered by the attacker are analyzed instantly, their profile is determined, and this data is transmitted live to the Monitor screen via UDP sockets.

🕸️ Red Team & Web Analysis Module: Includes an attacker module with obfuscation capabilities to test the system itself.

🐳 100% Isolated Environment: The entire system runs isolated from the outside world inside Docker containers.

🛠️ Installation Requirements
To run the project smoothly in a Linux environment, the following software must be installed on your system.

1. Docker Installation
Docker is mandatory as the entire system runs on a container architecture. If its necessary dont forget adding " xhost +local:docker "

2. LM Studio Installation 
The honeypot requires a local AI model to generate dynamic content.
Needed Settings:
Go to the "Local Server" tab on the left menu and start the server (It will run at //localhost:1234 by default).
Note: To allow Docker containers to access LM Studio, do not forget to enable CORS and Local Server settings in the Local Server settings and change the listening address to 0.0.0.0 if necessary.

🚀 Running the System
Once the requirements are met, getting the system up and running is extremely simple. After downloading the project files, open the terminal and navigate to the project's root directory.

All you need to do is run the following command:
```Bash
cd shadowguard-honeypot
sudo docker compose up --build
```
This command will do the following:

Creates an isolated Docker network.

Builds and starts the Monitor service.

Brings up the Honeypot server and starts listening.

Synchronizes the AI Bridge and Attacker services for testing.

To stop the execution, you can press Ctrl+C in the terminal, or if it is running in the background, you can use the sudo docker compose down command.

🏗️ Architecture and Services
The project boots up as 4 main services via docker-compose.yml:

Monitor: The monitoring component that visualizes collected logs, risk statistics, and live traffic coming over UDP.

Honeypot: The main trap system that opens listening ports, handles connections, and runs VFS and LLM scenarios (works in conjunction with Quarantine folders).

Attacker: The module created to test the system and execute automated scenarios (Red Team).

AI Bridge: The bridge service that provides data exchange between the Honeypot in the isolated system and LM Studio running on the host machine.

⚠️ Legal Disclaimer
This project was developed solely for educational purposes, cybersecurity research, and the analysis of defense mechanisms. Since it contains high-interaction features, it is not recommended to connect it directly to production networks without providing adequate isolation. The developers accept no responsibility for any consequences arising from the misuse of this tool.
